---
layout: project
github: oldies
title: Some old codes
tags: project C++ C reversing testing
---

Here I put all the tiny experiments and once useful projects from any subject, just for curiosity and a bit of history.

Currently, here we have the following projects:

- animalc

This is a game to find out which animal you are thinking, and it was used in an job interview where they would validate the quality of the code and the compreension of object oriented programming. 
There was some bonus points if you could reduce the conditionals and loops to a minimum (for a clear OO implementation) except for the input management code. 
Normally they received samples in Java, C#, Smalltalk, etc. 
So with this I tried to make a little impact by implementing it in plain C with OO concepts and with only one loop and none conditionals. Should I say that I was just kidding around?
I dont know if this still works, maybe the input code should be remade, anyway here it is, have fun.

- pk2sh

A command shell for manipulating Silkroad Online .pk2 packages. With plenty functionalities for manipulating files inside the package and defragmenting it also (reduce the size after game patches).
Also, I think it should have some issues to compile as it used an old boost version and there was some changes, mainly in program_options and filesystem libraries.

- pk2tool

Another tool for Silkroad Online .pk2 packages, but this one was based in a full reverse engineering of the filesystem dll from the game. This used the game dll to manipulate the .pk2 files.
